# PyBer_Analysis

## Overview of the analysis
The purpose of the new analysis is to analyze ride share data based on different city types (urban, suburban, and rural). The data collection includes the total ride numbers, total number of fares by dollar amount, the total number of drivers, and the total number of rides obtained in each city type using the groupby() function. With these values organized, the average fare and average fare per driver can then also be calculated based on the three variables given.
After the above analyses, the data was then further inspected during a time period - 2019 January to April. A line chart was then used to represent the relationship of total fare in $USD to the ride info that happened in the date range of 2019 January to April for all three city types.

## Results- Using images from the summary DataFrame and multiple-line chart, describe the differences in ride-sharing data among the different city types.

The urban city type has the highest fare dollars, followed by subruban city type, and rural city type with the lowest total fare in dollars. Even though the urban city type has the highest total fare in dollars, it has the lowest average fare per ride and per driver. On the opposite side, the rural city types has the lowest fares, but the average fare per ride and the average fare per driver are both higher than those in the suburban and urban city types. This conclusion is supported by the fact that the rural city type has the lowest number of rides and the lowest number of drivers. For example, the total number of drivers in urban area is about 30x as many as the drivers in the rural area, but the average fares in the urban city type only has about 1/3 of the average fares in the rural area.

## Summary- Based on the results, provide three business recommendations to the CEO for addressing any disparities among the city types.

1) Urban city types has the highest number of drivers and highest fares. One reason for this is possibly due to the higher population density in urban city type. People in urban city types are also known to take public transportation and less likely to own cars than the people in the suburban or rural city areas. Logically speaking, people in urban city types are more likely to use ride share than the people in eithe suburban or rural city types.
2) Obtaining the average distance driven in each fare would give insight to the fare amounts in each city type. Assuming that all drivers charge the same rate per distance in each ride, the only other variable affecting the fare amount will be the distance driven in each ride. If the above assumption is true, then the lower fare amounts in urban city types can also be explained since rides in urban areas are expected to be shorter due to urban city types being more densely populated than both suburban and rural areas (homes are closer, stores are more packed).
3) The attached research didn't specify whether each driver counted are "unique" drivers. For example, there are a total of 125 rides and 78 total drivers in rural city type. Did all 78 drivers provide at least one ride to contribute toward the 125 total rides, and did the drivers all charge the same rate? Infomation about unique drivers will help us determine whether average fare per ride and average fare per driver is a fair representation across all city types since drivers with mulitple rides would be weighed more heavily than the drivers with only one ride.
